We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play.

#### Time:
On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change.
In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about
scale and efficiency.
As software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth.

we sometimes say, “Software engineering is programming integrated over time.”

programming tasks (development) 
vs
software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance)

The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren’t squares, distance isn’t velocity. Software engineering isn’t programming.

What is the expected life span of your code?
We don’t mean “execution lifetime,” we mean “maintenance lifetime”
how long will the code continue to be built, executed, and maintained? How long will this software provide value?

This distinction is at the core of what we call *sustainability* for software. Your project is *sustainable* if, for the expected life span of your software, you are capable of reacting to whatever valuable change comes along, for either technical or business reasons.

#### Scale:
How many people are involved?
What part do they play in the development and maintenance over time?

A programming task is often an act of individual creation, but a software engineering task is a team effort.

The multiperson development of multiversion programs.

The difference between software engineering and programming is one of both time and people. Team collaboration presents new problems, but also provides more potential to produce valuable systems than any single programmer could.

As the organization grows and its projects expand, does it become more efficient at producing software?

#### Trade off:
In software engineering, we are regularly forced to evaluate the trade-offs between several paths forward, sometimes with high stakes and often with imperfect value metrics. The job of a software engineer, or a software engineering leader, is to aim for sustainability and management of the scaling costs for the organization, the product, and the development workflow.

